Let's talk about union
types in TypeScript.
Let's get back into TypeScript code.
And I'm actually going to
switch back to VS code here, so
we can get hands-on and
play with some things.
So first, remember this concept of literal
types we dealt with earlier, right?
Where humidity is literally the number 79,
it cannot be any other number.
And we can create sets for
numbers from 1 through 5,
and a set of even numbers
from 1 through 9.
So here you go, 1 through 5.
And we've got it spelled right out here.
It's 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5.
By the way,
don't try to get clever and use.
It's possible, but it's slow as hell.
You can make TypeScript types
do arithmetic for you, but
it involves a crazy degree
of what we're seeing here.
Imagine every number from 1 through 1,000,
and
then you end up with
a lot of types like this.
It's possible to do this.
It's useful for an example, but
don't do this at a large scale.
So we've got our type
representing 1 through 5.
And we can create a value here,
lowNumber, it's of type OneThroughFive.
And we give it 3, it's perfectly happy.
We try to give it 8 and
it says, 8 is not on the set.
You can't give me an 8.
I only accept 1 through 5.
Here's our set of even numbers.
We've got 2, 4, 6 and 8.
We can initialize an even number with 2.
It's perfectly happy, but if we try to
give it 5, not in the set, not allowed.
So here's how we would create
a union type, evenOrLowNumber.
So there's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 8 just as promised.
And I'm having to do
a little casting here,
because, unfortunately,
this is kind of funny.
TypeScript is a little bit too clever for
me to be able to teach
this the way I want.
It knows it's 5, it's gonna be,
hopefully, I'm gonna get very specific for
you.
So we're gonna leave it cast this way.
But this is an example of a safe cast.
It's a let declaration, 5 fits within
that set, it's perfectly fine.
>> How do you express sets
besides enumerating the values?
>> That's a great question.
How do you express sets
without enumerating values?
You would really use other types.
So if you wanted to create something
that's like the set of all possible
numbers, It's just this.
You just do number.
And if you wanted to add the set
of all strings, you could do that.
Oops, sorry, it's not plural, right?
This is the set of all
numbers from strings now.
That's what this means.
So it's a very relevant question, because
you would kind of compose types together.
You can think of all the types that
exist as existing sets, right?
Now, we're suffering a little bit here.
Not suffering, but
JavaScript numbers are all doubles.
We have no concept of an integer
here which is why I'm
having to be very explicit
about creating these.
It makes it relatable, but it's not.
I'm trying to go against the grain here
in terms of the way JavaScript thinks
about these things.
But yeah,
you create sets by creating types.
And you can define types
in terms of other types.
And we'll talk more about this
syntax here, in later chapters.
This is called the type alias,
where we're defining a type.
So this is the name of the type and
then this is how it's defined.
We'll get much deeper into that later on.
But for right now, observe that it works.
Another one.
>> So if numbers in JavaScript
are actually doubles,
isn't it dangerous to write
programs which do math on money?
I've heard double and
precise numbers are a no-no.
>> [LAUGH] I'm a very
good person to ask about
doing math with the currency amounts.
I would say in this case,
you can represent a 1,
a 2, a 3, a 4, and a 5 as doubles.
They're very simple when
represented on the screen.
It's like, you do this and
make everyone feel a little better,
cuz JavaScript's perfectly
happy to do this.
It's just a shorthand.
The fact that I'm writing no decimal
point on the screen does not change
the fact that these are really
doubles behind the scenes.
But think of this more
like an AOM kind of,
where it's got a set of specific values
that it allows, which is perfectly fine.
It's less about the precision here.
We're not necessarily doing math here.
We're just observing how sets work.
But good question.
>> And you might get into this later,
I'm sure you probably well.
Can we use expressions in our types?
>> What kinds of it,
it's unclear what kinds of expressions.
>> Yeah, I ask for clarification on that.
>> This is an expression.
This whole thing is a type expression.
We have five types here and
we're using a union type operator
to operate on those types.
It's an expression.
>> Did you say arithmetic and
hyper expressions is a bad
idea across the board or?
>> Arithmetic and
hyper expressions is possible, but
you have to get really exotic with it.
I would put it in the same category
where I believe it's possible
in Ruby to write programs
that are 90% emoji.
I wouldn't necessarily advise doing it,
but it's possible.
Maybe like a hackathon thing where you're
interested in pushing the limits of what
you can do.
But what you end up having to
do to make that work would be,
not going from 1 through 5 but
you go from 1 through 1000.
And then you'd need some mapping of like,
what is the minus 1 of every number?
999 is subtract 1 from 1,000, you get 999.
And then you could recursively apply
that to subtract multiple 1s from 1,000.
It's incredibly inefficient.
>> So if you thought you needed a type
of all even numbers or something.
>> It's not possible to define it,
literally the type of all even numbers.
TypeScript does not give you
a way of doing that yet.
But this is okay.
This is five members.
So really, that's a question of
something called cardinality,
which is the number of members in a set or
in a dimension.
And here, we would say we have a
cardinality of five, it's perfectly fine.
We're not going to melt all of our CPU
cores with TypeScript trying to figure
out what this means.
But as soon as you start trying
to get into the general case,
you would need to exhaustively go from
everything between min number and
max number allowable in JavaScript and
explicitly create every even value.
Maybe you could do it but don't.
[LAUGH]